# ENGL-3500-Homework-5

Coursework for ENGL 3500: Literary Games taught by Professors Jason Bennett (jcb2h) and Brad Pasanek (bmp7e) at the University of Virginia.  


Bacteria Survival!

You control little bacteria that subdivide over and over until you reach the end! Meanwhile the body you inhabit is trying to get rid of you. You move a bunch of bacteria in an RTS-style control format. You start off with 10 bacteria, and every time they subdivide into two more, each one changes ever so slightly. They may grow or shrink in size and speed, or gain other interesting properties! Survive long enough and multiply your bacteria! Just don’t mind the coughing sounds in the background… This explores the idea of forced choice as a player and the juxtaposition of what is a fun little “mario party”-esque minigame, and the actual horrors of what you as the player are doing.  

I drew from Galloway's idea of "games as actions." I felt that in games we do a lot of actions that ultimately leads us to kill people, or things, or monsters. But I wanted to put my own spin on the idea of videogames as killing, by giving the player a slower death of their victim that they are causing by their own hands. So while the actual procedural actions is avoiding death as the bacteria, we're also causing death to the person we inhabit. The action in question I believe can be summarized as "avoiding death," but I wanted to put a spin on the idea that even just "merely surviving" may cause harm, if you're a bacteria!  

I think I mostly really drew inspiration from the concept of Nguyen of player agency kind of in a Stanley Parable way where you almost kind of act like a god in the way you control the characters to bring about this person's doom. It's the sort of idea that we really talked about in class about where there may be interactions between the narrator and the player and how you seem to ultimately determine Stanley's fate either in defiance or compliance with some narrator. I wanted to make some sort of meta-game where you can also choose to just refuse to play, and purposely kill your bacteria in a sort of "benevolent godly miracle" that may be possible. But I want the idea to be the players' first instincts is still to unflinchingly cause this fictional, unseen person's demise. But as they realize that they have agency as a person playing the game to feel empathy for a sick person, they can just kill off the bacteria. I think if I have time, I'd like to extend a "life" mode after they beat the "death" mode, where the player just tries to move the bacteria into the death zones as soon as possible, but the death zones disappear quickly. Maybe that's a little too on the nose though. Do we have to follow the game's instructions? My goal is to give the player the realization of agency in how they play the game, and reward them for it. So the agency itself is the art, I suppose. 
